.\"
.\" lsp - list pages (or least significant pager)
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2023, Dirk Gouders
.\"
.\" This file is part of lsp.
.\"
.\" lsp is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
.\" version.
.\"
.\" lsp is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
.\" lsp. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH lsp 1 04/07/2024 0.5.0-rc4 "User commands"
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH Name
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
lsp \- list pages (or least significant pager)
.SH Synopsis
.SY lsp
.RI [ option\~ .\|.\|.\&]
.RI [ file\~ .\|.\|.]
.SY lsp
.B \-h
.SY lsp
.B \-v
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH Description
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.I lsp
is a terminal pager that assists in paging through data,
usually text \(em no
.MR \%more 1 ,
no
.MR \%less 1 .
.P
The given files are opened if file names are given as options.
Otherwise
.I lsp
assumes input from stdin and tries to read from there.
.P
In addition to its ability to aid in paging through text files
.I lsp
has some knowledge about manual pages and offers help in
viewing them:
.
.IP "\[bu] Visit references" 2.0
Manual pages usually refer to other manual pages and
.I lsp
.
allows to navigate those references and to visit them as new
.I files
.
with the ability to also navigate through all opened manual
pages or other files.
.IP
Here,
.I lsp
.
tries to minimize frustration caused by unavailable references and
verifies their existance before offering them as references that can
be visited.
.
.IP "\[bu] Complete resizes"
In windowing environments
.I lsp
does
.I complete
resizes when windows get resized.  This means it also reloads the
manual page to fit the new window dimensions.
.
.IP "\[bu] Apropos pseudo-file"
Search for manual pages using
.MR apropos 1 ;
in the current most basic form it lists all known manual pages ready
for text search and for visiting any of those manual pages.
.IP "\[bu] TOC mode"
.I lsp
has an experimental TOC mode.
.IP
This is a three-level folding mode trying to list only section and
sub-section names for quick navigation in manual pages.
.IP
The TOC is created using naive heuristics which works well to some
extend, but
.B it might be
.BR incomplete .
Users should keep that in mind.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH Searching
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.B lsp
supports searches using extended regular expressions (see
.MR regex 7 ).
.IP \[bu]
Initially, searches in both directions start at the top left of the
current page.
.IP \[bu]
If the search pattern is changed or a search continued after other
movement or a change between searches and navigating references
happens with the last current match on the current page the new
search starts from that position.
.IP \[bu]
Found matches are highlighted and the first one (the current match) is
marked by a blinking curser at
the end of the match.  \[aq]n\[aq] and \[aq]p\[aq] navigate to the
individual matches forth and back, respectively.
.IP \[bu]
If a search is started
.B lsp
tries to place the first matching line on the middle of the screen so
that context in both directions is visible.
.IP
Further matches on the same page don't cause further movement until
the first/last line is reached.
.IP \[bu]
.B CTRL-l
can be used to bring the line with the current match
to the top of the screen.
.IP \[bu]
The positioning of search matches can be toggled by pressing
.B CTRL-l
twice.

This toggles whether search matches are placed on the
first line or as described above.
.IP \[bu]
Highlighting of matches remains active when changing back to normal
file movement.  Press
.B ESC
to turn off highlighting of matches.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH Special Input Characters / Sequences
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.B lsp
tries to hand over data as is to
.MR ncurses 3
but some data is either converted to text attributes
or translated to some other data.

This happens on all input \(em
.B lsp
doesn't distinguish between text and non-text input, it relies on
a decent preprocessor.
.
.IP "\[bu] SGR sequences" 2.5
.br
SGR sequences are recognized and translated.

Currently, only a limited subset is implemented mostly by looking at
what input
.MR git 1
feeds
.B lsp
with.
.
.IP "\[bu] backspace sequences" 2.5
Those are sequences according to
.MR grotty 1
legacy output format, providing the text attributes bold, italics and bold
italics.
.
.IP "\[bu] carriage return (\[aq]\[rs]r\[aq])" 2.5
.br
.B lsp
replaces carriage return
with "^M", because the original has too toxic effects
on
.BR lsp 's
output.

This can be turned off with
.BR --keep-cr .
.
.IP "\[bu] TAB (\[aq]\[rs]t\[aq])" 2.5
.br
TAB stops are expanded to spaces according to their horizontal
position
.IR x
with a currently hardcoded maximum width of 8.
.LP
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH lsp_cat / Toxic Manual Pages
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
Usually,
.B lsp
is able to detect manual pages and their names by inspecting the first
line of a file \(em cooperative manual pages provide their name in the
header, twice.

In real life, however, manual pages exist that don't have their names
in the header but the name of their overall project name, for example.
.
.B Docker
is such an example that made
.B lsp
fail here.

.B lsp
now uses the fact that at least
.BR man-db 's
.MR man 1
provides the environment variable
.B MAN_PN
containing the name of the manual page.

This is nice for cases where
.B lsp
is called by
.MR man 1
but when
.B lsp
opens further manual pages only the then used pager process knows
about that environment variable but not
.B lsp
that only reads the data sent by that forked process.

.B lsp
now uses this bad trick to come to know names of additionally opened
manual pages:
.IP \[bu]
Provide a script
.B lsp_cat
that injects a line containing the value of
.B MAN_PN
like this:
.RS
.IP
.B <lsp-man-pn>groff(1)</lsp-man-pn>
.RE
.IP
prior to then executing
.MR cat 1
to output the actual input data.
.IP \[bu]
.B lsp
then provides this script
as
.B PAGER
when executing
.MR man 1 .
.IP \[bu]
.B lsp
then extracts the name out of the first line of the received data
before storing the rest as the content of the actual manual page.
.LP
Not very beautiful, perhaps, but it works.

The drawback of this trick is that we have manual pages that are
accessible by several names, the
.MR printf 3
family, for example.
.
With inspecting the header line,
.B lsp
would maintain only one file, regardless how many of those names the
user uses to visit this manual page.
With the described trick, thes manual pages can cause as
many different files as names for the manual page exist to
.BR lsp .

So, better ideas are welcome.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH Options
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
All options can be given on the command line or via the environment
variable
.BR LSP_OPTIONS .
.
The short version of toggles can also be used
as commands, e.g. the user can type
.B -i
.
while paging through a file to
toggle case sensitivity for searches.
.
.TP
.B -a, --load-apropos
.
Create an apropos pseudo-file.
.TP
.B -c, --chop-lines
.
Toggle chopping of lines that do not fit the current screen width.
.
.TP
.B -h, --help
.
Output help and exit.
.
.TP
.B -i, --no-case
.
Toggle case sensitivity in searches.
.
.TP
.
.B -I, --man-case
.
Turn on case sensitivity for names of manual pages.
.
.IP
.
This is used for example to verify references to other manual pages.
.
.TP
.
.B --keep-cr
.
Do not translate carriage return to "^M" on output.
.
.
.TP
.
.B -l, --log-file
.
Specify a path to where write debugging output.
.
.IP
.
This needs to be a template according to
.MR mkstemp 3 :
a string ending
with six characters
.IR XXXXXX .
.TP
.B -n, --line-numbers
.
Toggle visible line numbers.
.
.TP
.B --no-color
.
Disable colored output.
.
.TP
.
.B -o, --output-file
.
Specify output file to duplicate all read input.
.
.TP
.
.B --reload-command
.
Specify command to (re)load manual pages.
.IP
The given string must contain exactly one
.I %n
and one
.IR %s .
.IP
.I %n
is a placeholder for the name of the manual page and
.I %s
is one for the section.
.IP
Default is
.RI \[dq] man
.IR %s\~%n \[dq].
.TP
.B -s, --search-string
Specify an initial search string.
.IP
.B lsp
then starts with searching for that string and positions to the
first match or displays an error message.
.
.TP
.
.B -V, --no-verify
.
Toggle verification of references.
.IP
Verification of references is an expensive procedure.
On slow machines users might want options in that case: this one can
be used to completely turn verification off.  This comes at the cost
that unusable references might be presented.
.IP
By default verification is
.BR on .
.
.TP
.
.B -v, --version
Output version information of
.B lsp
and exit.
.
.TP
.
.B --verify-command
.
Specify command to verify the existance of references.
.IP
The given string must contain exactly one
.I %n
and one
.IR %s .
.IP
.I %n
is a placeholder for the name of the manual page and
.I %s
is one for the section.
.IP
Default is
.I \[dq]man\~-w\~%s\~%n\~>\~/dev/null 2>&1\[dq]
.
.TP
.
.B --verify-with-apropos
.
Use the entries of the pseudo-file
.I Apropos
for validation of references.
.IP
This option can speed up verification of references significantly but
users should keep in mind that verification will then be as reliable
as the system's manual page index is.
.IP
With this option, the first usage of
.I TAB
or
.I Shift-TAB
will load
the pseudo-file
.I Apropos
and create valid references for each of
its entries; all following reference actions will then be much
faster (approx. O(m) with m being the length of the reference).
.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH Commands
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TP
.
.BR <\~ / \~>
.br
Move to first / last page respectively.
.
.TP
.
.BR Pg-Down\~ / \~Pg-Up
.
Forward/backward one page, respectively.
.
.TP
.
.BR Key-Down\~ / \~Key-Up\~ / \~Mouse-Wheel\~down\~ / \~up
.
Forward / backward one line, respectively.
.TP
.B CTRL-l
.br
In search mode: bring current match to top of the page.
.
.TP
.
.B ESC
.br
Turn off current highlighting of matches.
.
.TP
.
.BR TAB\~ / \~S-TAB
.
Navigate to next/previous reference respectively.
.
.TP
.
.B SPACE
.br
Forward one page in file.
.
.TP
.B ENTER
.br
Depends on the active mode:
.RS
.IP "\[bu] In normal mode:"
Forward one line in file.
.
.IP "\[bu] If previous command was \fBTAB\fR or \fBS-TAB\fR:"
Open reference at point, i.e. call
.I `man
.IR <reference>' .
.
.IP "\[bu] In TOC-mode:"
Go to currently selected position in file.
.RE
.
.TP
.
.B /
.br
Start a forward search for regular expression.
.
.TP
.
.B ?
.br
Start a backward search for regular expression.
.
.TP
.
.B B
.br
Change buffer; choose from list.
.
.TP
.
.B a
.br
Create a pseudo-file with the output of
.MR apropos 1 .
.IP
That pseudo-file contains short descriptions for all manual pages known
to the system; those manual pages can also be visited with
.BR TAB\~ /\~ S-TAB\~ and\~ ENTER\~ commands.
.
.TP
.
.B b
.br
Backward one page
.
.TP
.
.B c
.br
Close file currently paged.
.IP
Exits
.B lsp
if it was the only/last file being paged.
.TP
.
.B f
.br
Forward one page
.
.TP
.
.B h
.br
Show online help with command summary.
.
.TP
.
.B m
.br
Open another manual page.
.
.TP
.
.B n
.br
Find next match in search.
.
.TP
.
.B p
.br
Find previous match in search.
.
.TP
.
.B q
.br
Depends on the active mode:
.RS
.IP "\[bu] In normal mode:" 4
exit
.BR lsp .
.IP "\[bu] In TOC-mode:"
switch back to normal view.
.IP "\[bu] In help-mode:"
close help file.
.IP "\[bu] In file selection:"
exit selection without selecting a file; stay at the former one.
.RE
.
.TP
.
.B r
.br
Reload current file.
.IP
(Currently only for regular files.)
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH Environment
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TP
.
.B LSP_OPTIONS
All command line options can also be specified using this variable.
.
.TP
.
.B LSP_OPEN / LESSOPEN
Analogical to
.MR less 1 ,
.B lsp
supports an input preprocessor but currently just the two basic forms:
.RS
.IP 1)
A string with the command to invoke the preprocessor containing
exactly one occurence of "%s" to be replaced with the file name.

This command must write a filename to standard output that
.B lsp
can use to read the data it should offer for paging.
.IP 2)
Same as
.B 1)
but starting with a pipe symbol "|" to form an input pipe.

The specified command must write to standard output to hand over the
data for paging to
.BR lsp .
.RE
.TP
.B MAN_PN
.br
.B lsp
expects
.MR man 1
to provide
.B MAN_PN
with the name of the manual page at hand.
.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH See Also
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.MR apropos 1 ,
.MR less 1 ,
.MR man 1 ,
.MR mandb 8 ,
.MR mkstemp 3 ,
.MR more 1 ,
.MR pg 1
.
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH Bugs
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.
Report bugs at
.I https://github.com/dgouders/lsp
