doc/lsp.adoc, before:

////
 * lsp - list pages (or least significant pager)
 *
 * Copyright (C) 2023, Dirk Gouders
 *
 * This file is part of lsp.
 *
 * lsp is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
 * terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
 * Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
 * version.
 *
 * lsp is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
 * WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR
 * A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
 *
 * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
 * lsp. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
////

= lsp(1)
:doctype: manpage
:man manual: User commands
:man source: {lsp-version}

== Name

lsp - list pages (or least significant pager)

== Synopsis

*lsp* [options] [file_name]...

*lsp* -h

*lsp* -v

== Description
*lsp* is a terminal pager that assists in paging through data, usually
text -- no *more*(1), no *less*(1).

The given files are opened if file names are given as options.
Otherwise *lsp* assumes input from stdin and tries to read from there.

In addition to it's ability to aid in paging through text files *lsp*
has limited knowledge about manual pages and offers some help in
viewing them:

* Manual pages usually refer to other manual pages and *lsp* allows to
  navigate those references and to visit them as new _files_ with
  the ability to also navigate through all opened manual pages or
  other files.
+
Here, *lsp* tries to minimize frustration caused by unavailable
references and verifies their existance before offering them as
references that can be visited.

* In windowing environments *lsp* does _complete_ resizes when windows
  get resized.  This means it also reloads the manual page to fit the
  new window size.

* Search for manual pages using *apropos*(1); in the current most
  basic form it lists all known manual pages ready for text search and
  visiting referenced manual pages.

* *lsp* has an experimental TOC mode. +
  This is a three-level folding mode trying to list only section and
  sub-section names for quick navigation in manual pages.
+
The TOC is created using naive heuristics which works well to some
extend, but *it might be incomplete*.  Users should keep that in mind.

== Options
All options can be given on the command line or via the environment
variable *LSP_OPTIONS*.  The short version of toggles can also be used
as commands, e.g. you can input *-i* while paging through a file to
toggle case sensitivity for searches.

*-a, --load-apropos*::
 Create an apropos pseudo-file.

*-c, --chop-lines*::
 Toggle chopping of lines that do not fit the current screen width.

*-h, --help*::
 Output help and exit.

*-i, --no-case*::
 Toggle case sensitivity in searches.

*-I, --man-case*::
 Turn on case sensitivity for names of manual pages. +
 This is used for example to verify references to other manual pages.

*-l, --log-file*::
 Specify a path to where write debugging output. +
 This needs to be a template according to mkstemp(3); a string ending
 with six characters _XXXXXX_.

*-n, --line-numbers*::
 Toggle visible line numbers.

*--no-color*::
 Disable colored output.

*--reload-command*::
 Specify command to load manual pages. +
 The given string should contain exactly one _%s_ which will be
 replaced by _<name>(<section>)_. Default is _man %s_.

*-s, --search-string*::
 Specify an initial search string.
+
*lsp* then starts with searching for that string and positions to the
first match or displays an error message.

*-V, --no-verify*::
 Toggle verification of references.
+
Verification of references is an expensive procedure.
On slow machines users might want options in that case: this one can
be used to completely turn verification off.  This comes at the cost
that unusable references might be presented.
+
By default verification is *on*.

*-v, --version*::
 Output version information of *lsp* and exit.

*--verify-command*::
 Specify command to verify the existance of references. +
 The given string should contain exactly one _%s_ which will be replaced by _<name>(<section>)_.
+
Default is _man -w \"%s\" > /dev/null 2>&1_.

*--verify-with-apropos*::
 Use the entries of the pseudo-file _Apropos_ for validation of
 references. +
This option can speed up verification of references significantly but
 users should keep in mind that verification will then be as reliable
 as the system's manual page index is. +
 With this option, the first usage of _TAB_ or _Shift-TAB_ will load
 the pseudo-file _Apropos_ and create valid references for each of
 it's entries; all following reference actions will then be much
 faster (approx. O(1)).

== Commands

*Pg-Down / Pg-Up*::

Forward/backward one page, respectively.

*Key-Down / Key-Up / Mouse-Wheel down/up*::

Forward/backward one line, respectively.

*CTRL-l*::

In search mode: bring current match to top of the page.

*ESC*::

Turn off current highlighting of matches.

*TAB / S-TAB*::

Navigate to next/previous reference respectively.

*ENTER*::

- If previous command was *TAB* or *S-TAB*: +
  Open reference at point, i.e. call _`man <reference>'_.

- In TOC-mode: +
  Go to currently selected position in file.

*/*::

Start a forward search for regular expression.

*?*::

Start a backward search for regular expression.

*B*::

Change buffer; choose from list.

*a*::

Create a pseudo-file with the output of _`apropos .'_. +
That pseudo-file contains short descriptions for all manual pages known
to the system; those manual pages can also be opened with
*TAB / S-TAB* and *ENTER* commands.

*b*::

Backward one page

*c*::

Close file currently paged. +
Exits *lsp* if it was the only/last file being paged.

*f*::

Forward one page

*h*::

Show online help with command summary.

*m*::

Open another manual page.

*n*::

Find next match in search.

*p*::

Find previous match in search.

*q*::

- Exit *lsp*.

- In TOC-mode: switch back to normal view.

- In help-mode: close help file.

== Environment

*LSP_OPTIONS*::
All command line options can also be specified using this variable.

*LSP_OPEN / LESSOPEN*::
Analogical to *less*(1), *lsp* supports an input preprocessor but currently just the two basic forms: +
One that provides the path to a replacement file and the one that writes the content to be paged to a pipe.

== See also

*apropos*(1), *less*(1), *man*(1), *mandb*(8), *mkstemp*(3), *more*(1), *pg*(1)

== Bugs

Report bugs at https://github.com/dgouders/lsp

Commit message:

lsp: version 0.2.0
A nasty bug with waitpid(2) has been fixed which seems to justify a
new version -- also with respect to several other changes:

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    reload: rebuild TOC only for manual pages

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    lsp_exec_man: correct usage of WIF*-Macros

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    file switching: sort selection dialog for recently visited files

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    lsp_exec_man: log pid of child process on error

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    options: Toggle -V / --no-verify also is a command line option

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    debugging: refactor log file

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    lsp.c: use macros for string comparison

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    cursor: further refinement

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    options: introduce toggle -V / --no-verify

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    build: fix builds for Raspbian and CentOS

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    cursor: refine handling

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    options: implement -s / --search-string

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    lsp.c: use our memory allocators

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    lsp.c: remove unneeded variable environ

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    options: implement --verify-command

Author: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

    options: implement --reload-command

Signed-off-by: Dirk Gouders <dirk@gouders.net>

doc/lsp.adoc, after:

////
 * lsp - list pages (or least significant pager)
 *
 * Copyright (C) 2023, Dirk Gouders
 *
 * This file is part of lsp.
 *
 * lsp is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
 * terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
 * Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
 * version.
 *
 * lsp is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
 * WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR
 * A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
 *
 * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
 * lsp. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
////

= lsp(1)
:doctype: manpage
:man manual: User commands
:man source: {lsp-version}

== Name

lsp - list pages (or least significant pager)

== Synopsis

*lsp* [options] [file_name]...

*lsp* -h

*lsp* -v

== Description
*lsp* is a terminal pager that assists in paging through data, usually
text -- no *more*(1), no *less*(1).

The given files are opened if file names are given as options.
Otherwise *lsp* assumes input from stdin and tries to read from there.

In addition to it's ability to aid in paging through text files *lsp*
has limited knowledge about manual pages and offers some help in
viewing them:

* Manual pages usually refer to other manual pages and *lsp* allows to
  navigate those references and to visit them as new _files_ with
  the ability to also navigate through all opened manual pages or
  other files.
+
Here, *lsp* tries to minimize frustration caused by unavailable
references and verifies their existance before offering them as
references that can be visited.

* In windowing environments *lsp* does _complete_ resizes when windows
  get resized.  This means it also reloads the manual page to fit the
  new window size.

* Search for manual pages using *apropos*(1); in the current most
  basic form it lists all known manual pages ready for text search and
  visiting referenced manual pages.

* *lsp* has an experimental TOC mode. +
  This is a three-level folding mode trying to list only section and
  sub-section names for quick navigation in manual pages.
+
The TOC is created using naive heuristics which works well to some
extend, but *it might be incomplete*.  Users should keep that in mind.

== Options
All options can be given on the command line or via the environment
variable *LSP_OPTIONS*.  The short version of toggles can also be used
as commands, e.g. you can input *-i* while paging through a file to
toggle case sensitivity for searches.

*-a, --load-apropos*::
 Create an apropos pseudo-file.

*-c, --chop-lines*::
 Toggle chopping of lines that do not fit the current screen width.

*-h, --help*::
 Output help and exit.

*-i, --no-case*::
 Toggle case sensitivity in searches.

*-I, --man-case*::
 Turn on case sensitivity for names of manual pages. +
 This is used for example to verify references to other manual pages.

*-l, --log-file*::
 Specify a path to where write debugging output. +
 This needs to be a template according to mkstemp(3); a string ending
 with six characters _XXXXXX_.

*-n, --line-numbers*::
 Toggle visible line numbers.

*--no-color*::
 Disable colored output.

*--reload-command*::
 Specify command to load manual pages. +
 The given string should contain exactly one _%s_ which will be
 replaced by _<name>(<section>)_. Default is _man %s_.

*-s, --search-string*::
 Specify an initial search string.
+
*lsp* then starts with searching for that string and positions to the
first match or displays an error message.

*-V, --no-verify*::
 Toggle verification of references.
+
Verification of references is an expensive procedure.
On slow machines users might want options in that case: this one can
be used to completely turn verification off.  This comes at the cost
that unusable references might be presented.
+
By default verification is *on*.

*-v, --version*::
 Output version information of *lsp* and exit.

*--verify-command*::
 Specify command to verify the existance of references. +
 The given string should contain exactly one _%s_ which will be replaced by _<name>(<section>)_.
+
Default is _man -w \"%s\" > /dev/null 2>&1_.

*--verify-with-apropos*::
 Use the entries of the pseudo-file _Apropos_ for validation of
 references. +
This option can speed up verification of references significantly but
 users should keep in mind that verification will then be as reliable
 as the system's manual page index is. +
 With this option, the first usage of _TAB_ or _Shift-TAB_ will load
 the pseudo-file _Apropos_ and create valid references for each of
 it's entries; all following reference actions will then be much
 faster (approx. O(1)).

== Commands

*Pg-Down / Pg-Up*::

Forward/backward one page, respectively.

*Key-Down / Key-Up / Mouse-Wheel down/up*::

Forward/backward one line, respectively.

*CTRL-l*::

In search mode: bring current match to top of the page.

*ESC*::

Turn off current highlighting of matches.

*TAB / S-TAB*::

Navigate to next/previous reference respectively.

*ENTER*::

- If previous command was *TAB* or *S-TAB*: +
  Open reference at point, i.e. call _`man <reference>'_.

- In TOC-mode: +
  Go to currently selected position in file.

*/*::

Start a forward search for regular expression.

*?*::

Start a backward search for regular expression.

*B*::

Change buffer; choose from list.

*a*::

Create a pseudo-file with the output of _`apropos .'_. +
That pseudo-file contains short descriptions for all manual pages known
to the system; those manual pages can also be opened with
*TAB / S-TAB* and *ENTER* commands.

*b*::

Backward one page

*c*::

Close file currently paged. +
Exits *lsp* if it was the only/last file being paged.

*f*::

Forward one page

*h*::

Show online help with command summary.

*m*::

Open another manual page.

*n*::

Find next match in search.

*p*::

Find previous match in search.

*q*::

- Exit *lsp*.

- In TOC-mode: switch back to normal view.

- In help-mode: close help file.

- In file selection: exit selection without selecting a file; stay at the former one

== Environment

*LSP_OPTIONS*::
All command line options can also be specified using this variable.

*LSP_OPEN / LESSOPEN*::
Analogical to *less*(1), *lsp* supports an input preprocessor but currently just the two basic forms: +
One that provides the path to a replacement file and the one that writes the content to be paged to a pipe.

== See also

*apropos*(1), *less*(1), *man*(1), *mandb*(8), *mkstemp*(3), *more*(1), *pg*(1)

== Bugs

Report bugs at https://github.com/dgouders/lsp
